StyledTextOverSK/README.md, before:

# StyledTextOverSK

Test of putting overlays of text on top of a SpriteKit app.

In particular, mimic typical meme layout with an overlay that stands out against a background picture.

## The Exploration
The initial template for an SK game displays a Hello World using an [SKLabelNode] that is constructed in the initial `GameScene.sks` - you can edit it in the Scene visual editor.

This node type supports a single style specifying font name, size, style and color, **or** using an [NSAttributedString] which allows for inline changes of font attributes. It is still a single line of text with control over how it wraps but no easy way to use multiple lines (inserting line breaks programmatically may work)

### Attributed String Issues
Although the visual scene editor apparently allows you to specify the colour, this doesn't seem to persist and translate into runtime.

This supports a 

## App Build
Created using XCode 9.4.1 "ios Game" template

[SKLabelNode]: https://developer.apple.com/documentation/spritekit/sklabelnode
[NSAttributedString]: https://developer.apple.com/documentation/foundation/nsattributedstring

Commit message:

Using Attributed Strings in Code
GameScene.sks
- remove the HelloLabel

GameScene.swift
- add fancyHello method (generated by AttributedString Creator utility)
- didMove(to:) - init self.label with a new SKLabelNode using fancyHello and manually add to scene

StyledTextOverSK/README.md, after:

# StyledTextOverSK

Test of putting overlays of text on top of a SpriteKit app.

In particular, mimic typical meme layout with an overlay that stands out against a background picture.

## The Exploration
The initial template for an SK game displays a Hello World using an [SKLabelNode] that is constructed in the initial `GameScene.sks` - you can edit it in the Scene visual editor.

This node type supports a single style specifying font name, size, style and color, **or** using an [NSAttributedString] which allows for inline changes of font attributes. It is still a single line of text with control over how it wraps but no easy way to use multiple lines (inserting line breaks programmatically may work)

### Attributed String Issues
Although the visual scene editor apparently allows you to specify the colour, this doesn't seem to persist and translate into runtime.

This supports attributed strings but not wrapping them.

There was a useful gist on building multiple label nodes `SKMultilineLabel` by [Craig Grummitt][CG] but only taking a single style and breaking the word wrapping (note this **is** a complex issue!).

You can (possibly only in iOS 11) use a combination of:

    label.lineBreakMode = .byWordWrapping
    label.numberOfLines = 0 

To get wrapped text - the key is specifying the `numberOfLines` as the default is to a single line.
![Screenshot of wrapped formatted text](img/AttributedStringWithWrapping.png)


## App Build
Created using XCode 9.4.1 "ios Game" template

[SKLabelNode]: https://developer.apple.com/documentation/spritekit/sklabelnode
[NSAttributedString]: https://developer.apple.com/documentation/foundation/nsattributedstring
[CG]: https://gist.github.com/craiggrummitt/03bfa93c07e247ee9358
