SkinSuit/README.md, before:

# SkinSuit

Testing how to embed SpriteKit within a SwiftUI App.

The _simple way_ is to use [SpriteView][SV] as shown in [Paul Hudson's tutorial][HWS].

However, that has two limitations:

1. It requires a prebuilt Scene which will be resized to match later, which is counter to the way [touchgram][tg] builds its scene.
2. The `SpriteView` lacks any way for SpriteKit to change scenes other than via recreation.

## Bugs in SpriteView behaviour
The most obvious and one I didn't find a workaround for is that the transition parameter is completely ignored when you init a [SpriteView with transition][SVi].

The subtle second bug occurs when you reuse the scene - after toggling a couple of times a blank gray view appears. Repeated tapping on the toggle button _sometimes_ shows the correct image. This is regardless of specifying the transition so is unlikely to be the [retention bug previously observed][sb].

![Screen recording showing after a few button taps that a grey screen is shown](img/ReusingSKScenesWithSpriteViewProblem.gif "ReusingSKScenesWithSpriteViewProblem.gif")

Both of these are regarded as intractable - will leave this as is to demonstrate this behaviour.

## SKView inside SwiftUI
The escape hatch of [UIViewRepresentable][rep] is used by `SKViewApproach`.

Note some weird behaviour when this was the 2nd tab, it didn't appear to do the presentScene, **unless** the first tab had interacted. This may be the [transition bug][sb] in action. I recommend strongly against mixing using `SpriteView` in an app that also uses `SKView` even if on different screens.

### Cleanup logic
Using different tabs as shown here is a bit more problematic for cleanup - it shouldn't be a problem but note [dismantleUIView][dv] is **not** invoked just changing tabs - it would only be when going to another screen or if the entire content is dropped from the view. 

The sample was changed so in `ContentView` now we can use the **Hide SpriteKit Demos** button to ensure destruction happens.

```
    if isShowingSpriteKit {
        TabView {
            SKViewApproach...

```

Going to the SpriteKit view and back out again with **Hide SpriteKit Demos** will show the following in the debug console in Xcode.

```
InitLogger init - SKContainer
dismantleView invoked in SKViewApproach
InitLogger deinit - SKContainer
```


[HWS]: https://www.hackingwithswift.com/quick-start/swiftui/how-to-integrate-spritekit-using-spriteview
[SV]: https://developer.apple.com/documentation/spritekit/spriteview
[SVi]: https://developer.apple.com/documentation/spritekit/spriteview/3592999-init
[tg]: https://www.touchgram.com/
[sb]: https://medium.com/touchgram/oops-hitting-a-5yo-apple-bug-17d2703519f4
[rep]: https://developer.apple.com/documentation/swiftui/uiviewrepresentable
[dv]: https://developer.apple.com/documentation/swiftui/uiviewrepresentable/dismantleuiview(_:coordinator:)-5lee7

Commit message:

SkinSuit - Be able to cope with changing tabs, currently not playing Fixes #3 SceneProvider - factored out common logic used in both approaches
ContentView
- scenes and transitions arrays replaced by global generator functions to avoid reuse
- added toggle to swap which approach goes first

SpriteViewApproach
SKViewApproach
- use global generator functions replacing local sceneIndex and scene, transition arrays
- rely on SceneProvider to do the presentScene rather than re-build SpriteView

SKViewApproach
- take a SceneProvider rather than premade objects
- call scene provider to presentScreen embedding the logic to show transitions or not

SkinSuit/README.md, after:

# SkinSuit

Testing how to embed SpriteKit within a SwiftUI App.

The _simple way_ is to use [SpriteView][SV] as shown in [Paul Hudson's tutorial][HWS].

However, that has two limitations:

1. It requires a prebuilt Scene which will be resized to match later, which is counter to the way [touchgram][tg] builds its scene.
2. ~~The `SpriteView` lacks any way for SpriteKit to change scenes other than via recreation.~~

The limitation I thought I had found, which is echoed in a few questions has an easy workaround, thanks to [this stackoverflow question][so1] showing that you can simply:

1. Retain a property to the `SKScene` you pass into `SpriteView`
2. Use [SKScene.view][sk1] to get the backing `SKVieww` created inside `SpriteView`
3. Call [presentScene(SKScene)][sk2] or [presentScene(SKScene, transition: SKTransition)][sk3] to show the next scene in the game.

This avoids the [typical hacks][sk4] forcing rebuild of the SwiftUI view structure
 
## Bugs in SpriteView behaviour
With the changes in 2025-04-01, the sample has now become robust. Previous gotchas seem to have been accidentally reusing `SKScene` objects - now we're using generators.

However, there's still **a long-standing Apple bug in SpriteKit on iOS** that can be seen in this demo. As I [wrote in an article][sb], when you have scene transitions, you cannot have any other active `SKView` retained.

The current version of SkinSuit demonstrates that this bug occurs regardless of using the SpriteView or SKView hosted approaches. It lets you toggle which of the two approaches is loaded first in the tab view. That one has working transitions. The other will appear unable to change scenes, if transitions are turned on. It is a rendering problem - the scene actually does change but is not rendered.


## SKView inside SwiftUI
The escape hatch of [UIViewRepresentable][rep] is used by `SKViewApproach`.

### Cleanup logic
Using different tabs as shown here is a bit more problematic for cleanup - it shouldn't be a problem but note [dismantleUIView][dv] is **not** invoked just changing tabs - it would only be when going to another screen or if the entire content is dropped from the view. 

The sample was changed so in `ContentView` now we can use the **Hide SpriteKit Demos** button to ensure destruction happens.

```
    if isShowingSpriteKit {
        TabView {
            SKViewApproach...

```

Going to the SpriteKit view and back out again with **Hide SpriteKit Demos** will show the following in the debug console in Xcode.

```
InitLogger init - SKContainer
dismantleView invoked in SKViewApproach
InitLogger deinit - SKContainer
```


[HWS]: https://www.hackingwithswift.com/quick-start/swiftui/how-to-integrate-spritekit-using-spriteview
[SV]: https://developer.apple.com/documentation/spritekit/spriteview
[SVi]: https://developer.apple.com/documentation/spritekit/spriteview/3592999-init
[tg]: https://www.touchgram.com/
[sb]: https://medium.com/touchgram/oops-hitting-a-5yo-apple-bug-17d2703519f4
[so1]: https://stackoverflow.com/questions/77253995/how-to-transitions-between-scenes-using-spriteview-in-swiftui
[sk1]: https://developer.apple.com/documentation/spritekit/skscene/view
[sk2]: https://developer.apple.com/documentation/spritekit/skview/presentscene(_:)
[sk3]: https://developer.apple.com/documentation/spritekit/skview/presentscene(_:transition:)
[sk4]: https://stackoverflow.com/questions/68784060/spritekit-and-swiftui-change-scene-a-better-way
[rep]: https://developer.apple.com/documentation/swiftui/uiviewrepresentable
[dv]: https://developer.apple.com/documentation/swiftui/uiviewrepresentable/dismantleuiview(_:coordinator:)-5lee7
