SKScribbles/README.md, before:

# SKScribbles
Exploring different ways to handle free-form drawing in SpriteKit with Swift

* `ShapeScribbling.playground` uses `SKShapeNode` to track a continuously updated drawing. Note that it ran into an interesting _behaviour_ in XCode 9.3 where appending nodes to an array caused a dramatic drop in interactive performance **in the playground only**.
* `ShapeScribble` is an iOS and macOS app using the logic from `ShapeScribbling.playground` to prove that it performs fine when compiled into apps. It compares approaches (segment control at top of screen to pick mode):
    * `GameScene2LineNodes` uses a set of nodes for **each** contiguous vector
        * As you draw, it adds a new `SKShapeNode` containing one short line, for each new point (more than 2.0 in x or y from prev point). That is a massive number of tiny _temp nodes_. The points are recorded in an array
        * On touch-up: 
            * The temp nodes are all removed.
            * A new node is created from the array of points, using the `SkShapeNode(splinePoints:, count:)` init which allows SpriteKit a chance to optimise line paths and generate a smoother line. Note that for many individual strokes, we still have one node per contiguous stroke.
    * `GameScenePathRebuilding` has **one big SKShapeNode**. 
        * As you draw, it builds up an array of points,adding a new point every time it is more than 2.0 in x or y from prev point.
        * On touch-up adds lines to the `CGMutablePath` of the single `SKShapeNode`. The path is re-assigned on each touch-up, causing the shapenode to regenerate its content. As we don't re-create the path, it ends up with multiple separate segments for each contiguous set of strokes.
    
    
## Effects of different approaches

Scribbling with my awkward handwriting and an Adonit Jot Pro styles on an iPhone provides testing of a mix of tight turns and tiny strokes.


### 2LineNodes approach

<img alt="Sample shot of 2LineNodes" src="./img/2LineNodes_sample.png" width=300/> 
<img alt="Sample shot of PathRebuild" src="./img/PathRebuild_sample.png" width=300 />

With the screenshots blown up you can see the _glow_ effect applied on Lines2Node. 

To my eye, PathRebuild is a little bit more jerky as each set of points is connected with a straight line, so when moving fast they have no smoothing. This is most noticeable on the capital P of _Pro_

## Varying Colors

Using [Chris Goldsby's color sequence iterator](https://github.com/cgoldsby/Sequences) different colors are generated for subsequent strokes.

This makes the different pattern of adding strokes really clear - when you turn this on and draw lots of different strokes in 2LineNodes, each ends up as a different color.

With PathRebuild, the color for the **entire path** changes ever time you draw a new stroke.

In the following shot, note that I also doubled the _glow_ parameter to 4.0.

<img alt="Sample shot of 2LineNodes with multiple colors" src="./img/2LineNodes_sample_multicolor.png" width=300/>

Commit message:

SKScribbles - Adding Fill Switch and drawing filled shapes
both/GameViewController.swift
- renamed with iOS and Mac suffix because Interface Builder keeps confusing same name even with manual selection,
  making outlets be inserted into the wrong file.
- varyColorsValueChange - fixed bug where called makeScene with index 0 - meant if you toggled the varyColors switch you got the wrong scene started anew
- fillValueChanged added so if toggle new switch, starts again
- segValueChange - disabled varyColors and fill switches if on the particleCrayon panel
- makeScene pass a fill flag to newGameScene methods for first two scene types

ios/Main.storyboard
macOS/Main.storyboard
- added switch/checkbox on both for Fill

GameScene2LineNodes
- added _fillShape property
- added fill param to init and factory function
- touchUp
  - set the fill color depending on _fillShape
  - close the curve with an added point if _fillShape set

GameScenePathRebuilding
- added _fillShape property
- added fill param to init and factory function
- touchUp
  - set the fill color depending on _fillShape
- updatePath - set the fill color depending on _fillShape

SKScribbles/README.md, after:

# SKScribbles
Exploring different ways to handle free-form drawing in SpriteKit with Swift

* `ShapeScribbling.playground` uses `SKShapeNode` to track a continuously updated drawing. Note that it ran into an interesting _behaviour_ in XCode 9.3 where appending nodes to an array caused a dramatic drop in interactive performance **in the playground only**.
* `ShapeScribble` is an iOS and macOS app using the logic from `ShapeScribbling.playground` to prove that it performs fine when compiled into apps. It compares approaches (segment control at top of screen to pick mode):
    * `GameScene2LineNodes` uses a set of nodes for **each** contiguous vector
        * As you draw, it adds a new `SKShapeNode` containing one short line, for each new point (more than 2.0 in x or y from prev point). That is a massive number of tiny _temp nodes_. The points are recorded in an array
        * On touch-up: 
            * The temp nodes are all removed.
            * A new node is created from the array of points, using the `SkShapeNode(splinePoints:, count:)` init which allows SpriteKit a chance to optimise line paths and generate a smoother line. Note that for many individual strokes, we still have one node per contiguous stroke.
    * `GameScenePathRebuilding` has **one big SKShapeNode**. 
        * As you draw, it builds up an array of points,adding a new point every time it is more than 2.0 in x or y from prev point.
        * On touch-up adds lines to the `CGMutablePath` of the single `SKShapeNode`. The path is re-assigned on each touch-up, causing the shapenode to regenerate its content. As we don't re-create the path, it ends up with multiple separate segments for each contiguous set of strokes.
    
    
## Effects of different approaches

Scribbling with my awkward handwriting and an Adonit Jot Pro styles on an iPhone provides testing of a mix of tight turns and tiny strokes.


### 2LineNodes approach

<img alt="Sample shot of 2LineNodes" src="./img/2LineNodes_sample.png" width=300/> 
<img alt="Sample shot of PathRebuild" src="./img/PathRebuild_sample.png" width=300 />

With the screenshots blown up you can see the _glow_ effect applied on Lines2Node. 

To my eye, PathRebuild is a little bit more jerky as each set of points is connected with a straight line, so when moving fast they have no smoothing. This is most noticeable on the capital P of _Pro_

## Varying Colors

Using [Chris Goldsby's color sequence iterator](https://github.com/cgoldsby/Sequences) different colors are generated for subsequent strokes (except on the Particle Crayon mode).

This makes the different pattern of adding strokes really clear - when you turn this on and draw lots of different strokes in 2LineNodes, each ends up as a different color.

With PathRebuild, the color for the **entire path** changes ever time you draw a new stroke.

In the following shot, note that I also doubled the _glow_ parameter to 4.0.

<img alt="Sample shot of 2LineNodes with multiple colors" src="./img/2LineNodes_sample_multicolor.png" width=300/> 

## Fill Mode
On the vector drawing, first two modes (not Particle Crayon), you can also toggle a _Fill_ mode. This has very different effects, on the 2LineNodes panel you see the shape you drew closed and filled. This confirms this is the best approach to draw a series of bounding, filled shapes, which was the main aim of adding the feature.

The effect with PathRebuilding is a lot more dynamic as different curve segments are alternatively filled - have fun playing with it and working out what's going on.
