ThrobsAndBobs/README.md, before:

# ThrobsAndBobs

Test of different ways to have a simple shape pulse and move.

Specifically, I want to have a _mildly animated_ prompt in [Touchgram][tg] that hints to the user where they should be stroking. Internally, we have a series of coordinates which are already used to draw an [SKShapeNode][SKShape] if the creator of the Touchgram requests a static prompt (typically mostly transparent).

## The Exploration

This reflects just not knowing what performance is like for different alternatives and also considering how they may fit in with aspects of [Touchgram][tg].

### Throbbing

Initial ideas are that a _throbbing_ shape can be accomplished, at least, by:

- an [SKShader][SKSd] rendering the entire shape and varying it over time or position, useful for inbuilt components and I suspect the most efficient way to provide this
- an [SKAction][SKA] animating through a set of [SKTextures][SKT] - typical game technique but maybe more awkward when loading user generated content
- an [SKAction][SKA] that changes the [scale] of an original graphic node.

Note that there's a massive set of SKActions created with a factory function they call an [initializer][init] 

### Motion

I'm only going to explore this with [SKAction][SKA] and possibly not get to it in this first demo but wanted to include it here at least as a placeholder. The main approach we are likely to use is [following along a path][follow]


[SKA]: https://developer.apple.com/documentation/spritekit/skaction
[SKShape]: https://developer.apple.com/documentation/spritekit/skshapenode
[SKShd]: https://developer.apple.com/documentation/spritekit/skshader
[scale]: https://developer.apple.com/documentation/spritekit/skaction/1417741-scale
[init]: https://developer.apple.com/documentation/spritekit/skaction/action_initializers
[tg]: https://www.touchgram.com
[follow]: https://developer.apple.com/documentation/spritekit/skaction/1417822-follow

Commit message:

ThrobsAndBobs - Adding Throbbing Heart Shader Element GameScene.sks - changed label so know is not default project
GameScene.swift
- comment out spinnyNode
- heartShader & heartShaderNode added
- touchDown - create heartShaderNode if not existing or too close
- touchMoved - remove spinnyNode code, just move heartShaderNode
- touchUp - remove spinnyNode code
- didMove(to)
  - comment out creating spinnyNode

ThrobbingHeart2D.fsh
- added

CGPoint_GeometryExtensions.swift
- added

SpriteKitExtensions.swift
- copied from twostraws repo

ThrobsAndBobs/README.md, after:

# ThrobsAndBobs

Test of different ways to have a simple shape pulse and move.

Specifically, I want to have a _mildly animated_ prompt in [Touchgram][tg] that hints to the user where they should be stroking. Internally, we have a series of coordinates which are already used to draw an [SKShapeNode][SKShape] if the creator of the Touchgram requests a static prompt (typically mostly transparent).

## Credits
Uses `ShaderKitExtensions.swift` from [twoStraws][ShKit]

## The Exploration

This reflects just not knowing what performance is like for different alternatives and also considering how they may fit in with aspects of [Touchgram][tg].

### Throbbing

Initial ideas are that a _throbbing_ shape can be accomplished, at least, by:

- an [SKShader][SKSd] rendering the entire shape and varying it over time or position, useful for inbuilt components and I suspect the most efficient way to provide this
- an [SKAction][SKA] animating through a set of [SKTextures][SKT] - typical game technique but maybe more awkward when loading user generated content
- an [SKAction][SKA] that changes the [scale] of an original graphic node.

Note that there's a massive set of SKActions you choose from with a factory function they call an [initializer][init] as well as being able to 

### SKAction-based pulse
The default template for a SpriteKit game includes a file `Actions.sks` which defines an action `Pulse`. That is invoked in `GameScene.swift`

### Motion

I'm only going to explore this with [SKAction][SKA] and possibly not get to it in this first demo but wanted to include it here at least as a placeholder. The main approach we are likely to use is [following along a path][follow]


[SKA]: https://developer.apple.com/documentation/spritekit/skaction
[SKShape]: https://developer.apple.com/documentation/spritekit/skshapenode
[SKShd]: https://developer.apple.com/documentation/spritekit/skshader
[scale]: https://developer.apple.com/documentation/spritekit/skaction/1417741-scale
[init]: https://developer.apple.com/documentation/spritekit/skaction/action_initializers
[tg]: https://www.touchgram.com
[follow]: https://developer.apple.com/documentation/spritekit/skaction/1417822-follow
[ShKit]: https://github.com/twostraws/ShaderKit
